been one of your favorites? Oh yes, he was one of my
favorites and
Chastain was another. If we could get him, he was
the history professor, and if we could get him to
talking about the
military campaigns of the Civil War, why We got a
lecture, a talk, and we didn't have to do anything.
He took care of it from there on.
Nevertheless, I think he was a good teacher. And
Deke Fountain in the English department, E.J.
Fermier,
and I suppose my favorite of all of them was Gilbert
Allen Geist, who was a freehand drawing prof
and a part of the architectural department, of
course. You mentioned if you could get Mr.
Chastain talking about a battle or a Civil War
campaign, then you didn't have to do anything for
the class. Did you normally have a recitation
segment where He would ask questions and you would
have to answer? He would ask questions, yes.
And he was very strict on freshmen. There were
times when we had more students in the section and
there were chairs in the classroom.
in those cases where the freshmen, some of the
freshmen would have to sit in the windows so that
the older students could have seats, chairs. But
he was,
in fact, he would ask questions in class and give
you the answer himself,
King Edward had 10,000 what in his army?
Singletary? Men. That's right, that's right.
Such as that. He was an entertaining sort of
professor.
What were the attitudes of the students towards
the administration of the school? And I guess
there was a dual administration with the
president sort of in charge of academic matters
and the commandant or the bull in charge of
military matters. Was it a pretty cordial
relationship, or was there some conflict? I think
there was a good relationship between the two. The
students... I generally didn't particularly
like the
first bull that we had there, Levi J. Brown, and Dr.
Brazell was the, well, no, Catfish Milner was the
president, I believe, when I went there, and then
sometime after that, Dr. Brazell came, and I
believe the second year. I recall Dr. Brazell
apologizing to the students for the way he combed
his hair. He partied it in the middle, and we
thought that was sort of sissy.
But Dr. Brazell was well liked, and the rest of the
military instructors, most of them were pretty
well liked. Among those, I think old Sergeant
Kinney was one of the
best liked. He was an old retired sergeant. And
then later on, William H.H. Morris, who later
became lieutenant general and in command of the
Caribbean area during World War II, was very
popular with the students. Was he a military
instructor? Yes. And also he was an instructor in
the training camp at Leon Springs when we went in
service.
There was a period in the early 20th century where
on April the 1st, the entire Corps went on an
extended hike to the Brazos. Did you have that any
of the years you were there? Yes, we had a hike. We
had maneuvers for overnight. I believe it was we
had overnight camp and that sort of thing. I don't
recall whether we went to the Brazos or just where,
but I do remember that we had that
in our program. Was that on April 1st? I don't
recall. We had some pictures of a hike to the Brazos
and supposedly At one point, anyway, this was done
to kind of prevent or forestall mischief on the
campus on April Fool's Day. Well, I hadn't thought
of that.
I just don't recall whether it was April 1st or not.
One of the things that's of interest to us is the
number of customs or traditions which have been
carried on campus for a long time, such things as
the bonfire and the muster and silver taps. Were
any of these in the vogue while you were there? As I
recall, silver taps was because there was one or
two deaths while I was there, and I think they used
silver taps at that time. I don't recall any of the
other. Did the entire Corps, when a boy died, if he
died on campus and they carried the casket to the
railroad station, did the whole Corps march with
him? No. No, I don't believe so. One of the students
I've talked to, former students I've talked to,
indicated that they did when he was there. I see.
Perhaps it came along after or before my time.
Okay.
Did you have any girls in any classes while you were
there? No, I don't recall any girls at all in the
classes. One or two of the instructors' wives were
in some of the classes. I suppose not over a half a
dozen that I recall, maybe not that many.
who were in some of the classes, but no girls at all.
Nobody who was not in some way tied to a university
person or college person. That's right. We know
that a lot of the students who went to A&M at that
time had jobs of one sort or another. Did you have
any jobs on campus while you were there? Yes.
In my freshman year, I worked nights in the
agricultural building at the creamery making ice
cream and cleaning up the laboratory along with
another student. He got the job and I got to work
also. Did that kind of work? Let's see. Was that ice
cream for the cafeteria? Or was it sold off? I don't
know what they did with it. We packed it in
10-gallon cans, I believe it was. And I think they
shipped some of it, but I don't know. Perhaps they
did use some of it there.
And
oh, I don't know. In my senior year I did a little
drawing for the building and grounds department,
designed a residence for the, and drew the plans
for a residence for the Commandant's dwelling
which was built after I believe, after I left
there. And then we did all during those my
sophomore junior and senior years along in there
we made placards for for the extension service
they had a train that visited around over the state
I believe at that time and they wanted signs for the
various products and the usual signs that they
would require then we also
kids in the architectural department. We
designed
class cards for class photos or club photos. I
would say not class photos, but various club
photos and made a little money that way. We got as
high as 50 cents an hour for some of that work.
The plans that you drew for the Commandant's home,
you say they were actually used later? They were
used later.
Would that have been the home that Ike Ashburn? I
don't. He was a Commandant, I believe, after that.
After, a good long while after that. He was a
Commandant after World War I, I believe. And of
course, that was before World War I that I did that
work. But the house that Ashburn lived in, and I
don't know whether any other commandants lived
in, I presume they did, we have had somebody in our
faculty has come into the archives looking for
pictures of that house because he now owns it and
lives in it. Somebody bought it and moved it off
campus. Oh, is that right? And he was interested in
primarily the outward appearance of it. Well, I
don't remember much about it. Well, we have some
fairly small pictures that show it. Have you? I
don't believe it's been altered any on the
outside, or if it hasn't been altered very much. I
might recognize it. I don't know. I wasn't very
good at it those days. It's only a couple blocks off
campus now. Is that right? I'd like to see it
sometime when I'm there. I was never aware that the
house had been designed by a student. Yes,
actually, it was a frame house, just a wood frame
house, wood siding, as I recall, and a porch on
maybe two sides of the house. I don't recall. I've
forgotten that. It was located, I believe,
somewhere near Guyon Hall. I don't know. Guyon
Hall wasn't there when I was there. It was built, I
believe, in 1918. Yes. You had chapel in the old
chapel later to be used as an armory, I believe.
Yes.
We finished a little bit early in 1917, before
we left there in May, May the 3rd, I believe it was.
So you say that your class in the class of 17 What,
did you kind of hurry up the last semester? The
class of 17, I believe as a unit, practically as a
unit at any rate, all those who were physically
able, went to a first officer's training camp at
Leon Springs. And some of the juniors also went.
For how long then did you stay in the military? Oh, I
went through that camp and competed for regular
army commission and managed to get it and was
assigned to a regular army regiment in Arizona and
was there for about a year and back to Camp Travis or
Fort Sam Houston now, and the arms just caught us
there. And I retired then, resigned my commission
in 1919,
in about May. I was in about two years, a little
over, I guess. Okay. According to the yearbook of
1917, when you graduated for the 14-15 school
year, you had been on the ZOAVI team. Yes. Could you
tell us a little bit about that organization?
Well, you have seen on stage, in stage shows,
particularly on television, fancy rifle work.
Mm-hmm. Army, Navy, Marines. Yes, particular
drill teams. Special drill teams, and that is what
the ZOA team was. The boy named Charlie Stoner,
before he came to school, had done professional
work like that. So he organized the that team and I
believe Ronstangle might have been on it. I'm not
sure. Was it organized in 1415? Yes, yes. We made, I
recall, we made
trips two different years with the Glee Club and
the
to the various schools and towns around in Texas.
And the drill team, 13 of us went along with that.
There were actually about 17, I believe, in it, but
could only use 13 on the trip. So it was a special
drill team, somewhat akin, but somewhat smaller,
a good bit smaller than the Ross Volunteers. Oh,
yes. The Ross Volunteers was just straight
company drill team. For instance, they marched at
quick time, 120 per minute, I believe. We drilled
at a much faster pace than that, and of course,
there was some, I guess you'd call it a little bit of
athletics along with it, special handling of the
guns and so on. Did that require a good bit of
practice? Yes, it did. It required an awful lot of
practice. This would have been, well, although
the fish drill team is a larger unit. We didn't have
a fish drill team. No, at that time. Was the Zouave
team composed of people from all classes? I
believe so, except no seniors, as I recall. And no
freshmen. So it would be primarily only
sophomores and juniors. Sophomores and juniors.
Do you have any idea how long that organization
lasted? I believe only as long as Charlie Stoner
was there. He was a 16-man. He was one of my original
classmates.
I recall we made two trips around over the state.
with the team.
How did you raise money for the trip or did the
school supply you with some money? No. The school
perhaps, I don't remember how we raised the money.
I suppose the school paid part of it. At least we
went by train and What kind of uniform did you have?
We had the gray uniform. Just a regular normal
cadet uniform and have a special fancy dress. No
special uniform. This type of organization
sometimes has. No, this was just a straight gray
uniform. I know there were a number of Civil War
units with that particular title that had very
fancy uniforms. Yes, I know. I recall. And one year
you were circulation manager of the battalion.
Right. My roommate was business manager. What did
being circulation manager involve?
Rolling the papers in pre-addressed
papers
getting them ready to mail out. This would be to
out-of-town subscribers? Yes, yes. Would this
be, what, former students who were subscribing to
the battalion? Yes, former students who were
subscribing to other schools. Did you mail it to
the advertisers? The students would subscribe
for their girlfriend, for instance, or their
parents,
Someone like that. But as far as the students were
concerned, they just picked it up at a location
somewhere on campus? I don't recall about that. I
think they were just distributed by companies,
perhaps. Today, they put a pile in the library and a
pile here and a pile there, and the students go by
and pick them up. Is that right? I don't know.
Generally, they also deliver them through the
whole city of College Station. I don't know
whether there was really any city of College
Station when you were there. No, there were very
few people there, just the professors.
Then after you graduated, you went into the
service for a while, and in 1919 you resigned your
commission in the service. What did you do then? I
went back to Clarendon, Texas, and went into the
hardware and furniture business with my father
and older brother. Was that H.C. or K.C.? H.C. H.C.
I believe the former student's directory had it as
K.C., Kerbo and Sons. No, H.C. So it was H.C., Kerbo
and Sons. And what was, that was, did you say
furniture? Hardware and furniture. Hardware and
furniture. And I was in there. My father passed
away in 1930, and my brother and I continued
the business until 1936, when the Depression
finally got us.
Then I went to work for the Department of
Agriculture. At that point, did you just close out
the business? No, we went into bankruptcy. Went
into bankruptcy. So you went to the department?
Involuntary bankruptcy. Then you went to the
Department of Agriculture as a draftsman? I got a
job with the Department of Agriculture in
Amarillo as a draftsman and then went from there as
a junior architect and then as a field engineer and
then as a regional architect Dallas later on.
During that time, I was in Amarillo and San Antonio
and Dallas. And I was in Dallas when the
opportunity came to come to the Veterans
Administration in 46. And I took that... Do you
have any... favorite buildings that you designed
when you were with the Department of Agriculture,
or did you do any designing? Oh, I did some
designing. It was residential buildings, small
residences, farm residences, and
dairy barns,
storm cellars. So what would you do then? Draw a set
of plans which they would reproduce and
distribute to farmers? Yes, it would become a
standard plan then and they would send it out to the
various counties as they needed
and the writing of specifications of course and so
on. So then you came to Lubbock at the Veterans
Administration in 46. In 46, in the latter part of
46, as Assistant Chief Appraiser. In 47, I became
Chief Appraiser. What was your responsibility
then? Well, we had 79 counties of the western
counties of the state
we
did devalue our supervised evaluation and the
construction of VA housing in those counties of
course not personally and but through uh through
uh designated inspectors and appraisers in the
various counties like in El Paso and in Amarillo
Would this be if a veteran wanted to borrow money to
buy a house, then your office would appraise, you
would have someone who would appraise the... Yes,
for instance, some company would submit an
application for
appraisal of a house in El Paso. We would send it to,
say, Jay Weems in El Paso. he would send his
appraisal in, we would review it and issue a
evaluation on it. And then if it had to be built,
while we had inspectors in El Paso, we would
designate him to do the inspecting during the
construction. And I was with that until 1965, a
short time before the, well, on my 70th birthday,
well, I had to retire, of course, mandatory
retirement. And since then, you've been a
self-employed appraiser? Since then, I've had
more fun appraising than I ever had before. I work
kind of when I want to, and I try not to do too much,
but enough to stay busy. Uh-huh. It gives you a good
bit more freedom than you've had in the past. Oh,
yes, I work when I want to, and I punch no clocks, and
if I don't want an assignment, if someone wants an
appraisal made and I don't want to do it, it's easy
to... Do you work only in Lubbock, or do you go
outside of Lubbock? Oh, surrounding towns on
occasion, but most practically all together in
Lubbock and practically all together in
residential work. All residential housing...
This would be, you would be working as an appraiser
for a bank contemplating loaning money to buy a
house or? Not as an employee of that bank. No, I mean
you're consulting appraisers. Right, I'm an
independent appraiser in other words, and I do
appraisal work for, not only for the savings loans
and banks and so on, locally,
but...
There is a company in Wisconsin who reinsures or
insures a portion of local loans. Occasionally
they want a spot check made to see that those things
are in line, and I do work for them. Also, companies
like Texas Instrument Eastman Kodak and so on want
to move an employee, they assist him and
I do appraisals for them to establish market
value. They then in turn buy his house? They handle
the deal for him.
Do you have any other activities in which you
participate? No, I really don't. Have you become
involved in Lubbock politics or anything like
that? Oh, no, no. I have my druthers, of course,
about politics, but I don't take no active
interest in it.